Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> All right, welcome back to the Plleos
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. We're
looking at preservation in the newness
of life and this episode will be the
final one in which we'll be examining
the reality of that preservation as
available. From the next episode we'll
be seeing how we walk in preservation in
the newness of life. So we have done a
lot to show that preservation is a
readily available reality for us in this
new life that we have in Christ. And if
we're going to walk in God's purpose and
fulfill it, we have to acknowledge, grow
in, be strong in all the realities that
are available to us. We must not ignore
anything that is available to us in
Christ.
All right. And it's on that note that I
I I'll take us back to some of the
things we have seen. We have already
seen healing as available in the new
life. But we said this new life is what
God planned for man at the beginning
that will be affected at the end. And
between that time today, there are
certain things that are available to us
to be affected. So when we talk about
immortality for our bodies, what is
available to us whilst we are still in
mortal bodies? Healing is available to
us. Okay. So what is available to us
relative to a cosmos that is corrupt,
that is sick, that needs to be delivered
by the spirit. Let's quickly look at
Romans chapter 8 so that I could because
we'll be moving forward from the next
episode. Let's look at Romans 8 to
remind us of that
the power of the spirit is not just
going to be exercised on our bodies but
will take effect on creation itself. Now
in Romans 8 and 11 it says the spirit of
him that raised Jesus from the dead
dwells in you. If the spirit of him that
raises from the dead dwells in you, he
who raised Christ from the dead will
give life, immortal life to your mortal
bodies through his spirit that dwells in
you. So we see that we are going to come
out of mortality into immortality by
God's initiative via the spirit. But
that event is also going to affect the
cosmos. is going to affect creation.
Romans 8 and verse 19. For the endless
expectation of the creation eagerly
waits for the revealing of the sons of
God. For the creation was subjected to
futility. And we said that's
degeneration of wastage. It's getting
worse in itself.
All right. It was subject to futility
not willingly but because of him who
subjected it in hope or subjected it in
hope because the creation or the cosmos
will be delivered from the bondage of
corruption. So today the creation is
under the bondage of corruption and at
that point where the revealing of the
sons of God happen
it's going to be delivered from the
bondage of corruption into the glorious
liberty of the children of God. is going
to be delivered into the glorious
liberty of the children of God. So or
you could say of the sons of God as
well. So that same freedom that we
experience from mortality that glorious
freedom is also going to be a freedom
for uh the cosmos from corruption.
Now the same way by that spirit of God
we have the power of God available to be
affected in our bodies is the same way
effected in creation.
Okay is the same way we have the power
of God available to be affected in
creation. You remember we have seen that
and we won't go to so many texts this
time around from the example of the Lord
Jesus when there was a windstorm in
Matthew 8:23-27
or so and then in Mark chapter 4 I think
about 35 downwards to 40 or 41. So you
have we have those two texts we could
see also there was the instance of the
lord walking on water in Matthew 14:25
downwards and he exercised authority
dominion over that sick state of the
world there's also another instance we
mentioned which is when he spoke to the
fig tree there's an instance of him
showing authority over the cosmos and
when he thought when he taught faith at
that instance he pointed out that it's
it's applicable able to anything within
redemptive possibility. He said,
"Whosoever shall say to this mountain."
So he spoke to a fig tree and then he
mentioned a mountain. So whosoever shall
say to this mountain, "Be removed, be
cast into the sea, does not doubt since
I believe things here shall come to pass
in shall whatsoever seeth." So when when
we are dealing with a sick world, we
have authority, redemptive right to
tame it, restrain it, but we can't put a
necessary end to it by virtue of the
fact that the world is legitimately and
rightfully in a corrupt state today.
Another instance we saw preservation is
Acts chapter 27. Paul's experience
whilst he was under arrest or when he
was in custody going to testify before
Caesar and he said their trip was going
to be with disaster but later on it was
assured by the angel of the lord that
their lives were going to be preserved.
So we then start to see the role of the
angels of the lord in this
issue of preservation in the newness of
life. The lord Jesus mentioned the role
of angels in in Matthew chapter 26. Uh
the case for angels, let me just quickly
say is a revelatory case. The Bible
reveals the reality of angels. But
there's also a observable case we might
make. You know, a natural case we might
make, something you can observe
yourself.
It's difficult that for for you not to
have had maybe some people more than
others, I don't know. But it's something
that is almost rare that you will not
have had experiences that show a proof
that there is some intelligence behind
the scenes of the world. Even though it
can be for good or for you.
Interestingly, you could see people's
lives are so messed up and there's so
much orchestration that led to that and
you could see the details of people's
life so designed as a canvas
like sorry there's a work of art on a
canvas that you're like there's some
intelligence behind just that fact that
you met this person. and you had to be
there at the very moment this happened
that the events just aligned almost
precisely for that. So there is this
fact of God's orchestration or
providence we might want to say that
it's well stated in God's word but it's
also something that it'd be so difficult
for you not to have ever seen or
experienced. I mean I I I think
that is the case for
a behind the scenes intelligence that
can be for good or for evil that is
angels or demons that work um that work
um hand in hand with man you might want
to say that is with man's words to
affect the events that we see play out
on the earth. So but this is not a
teaching on angels itself. Therefore I'm
not going to go into much details on
that but that's the case for angels and
they play that role in preservation and
deliverance. So the Lord said I could
pray the angels for that to happen. I
could have prayed that to the father. I
mean the very reason he said that is
because he went to prayer considering
whether it is absolutely necessary that
that happens again just reflecting his
humanity no doubt and then praying for
him to carry out what he was supposed to
do. You know there are accounts where
you see the deliverance of the Lord
without any explanation and you can
clearly tell the ministry of angels was
at work and is what's been referred to.
Let me show you one in the book of Luke
chapter 4. So they were taking the Lord
up a hill to throw him down. They wanted
to pers they were persecuting him you
know they were taking him up a hill to
throw him down in his own time I
believe. Let's see Luke chapter 4 and
verse 28. So all those in the synagogue
when when they heard these things were
filled with wrath and rose up and thrust
him out of the city. So they pushed him
out of the city. That was not a funny
experience. These people mean business.
And they led him to the brow of the hill
on which their city was built
that they might throw him down the
cliff. Then the next statement just
reads, "Then passing through the midst
of them, he went his way."
For whatever reason, something happened.
Some form of confusion must have
happened. You might also argue maybe
some form of blindness or must have
happened, not literally that led to him
to him escaping that situation. This is
a case of um divine orchestration, you
know. So, and you you can find divine
orchestration as something you might
have observed in your life. if you
didn't meet this person, if that didn't
happen, if this didn't happen, then
maybe this other thing would not have
happened and then maybe this other thing
would not have happened. It happens all
the time because um it is part of God's
design that the events we see on earth
would happen alongside the
orchestrations that happen from the
heavens. You know and man plays a role
in determining whether the events
happening from the heavens in their own
life or people they are responsible for
uh positive or negative but again that's
on the teaching of angels not here but
the lord shows us in Matthew 26 angels
are involved in preservation in the new
life also in Matthew 4 Satan himself you
know quotes Psalm 91 to so the fact that
there's a scripture for something does
not mean you might be walking in the
spirit doing that. You could be walking
in the flesh. I mean someone can be
healing the sick with pride. Um one
might be doing something that is right
with the wrong motive. So one can
believe for preservation and deliverance
whilst walking in the flesh. And if
you're walking in the flesh, you might
be opening yourself up for the wrong
things. So the Lord said you shall not
tempt the Lord your God. The truth of
preservation and deliverance is not to
prove a point. Is for preservation and
deliverance. Period. So it's not to make
a statement to anyone. It's not to prove
a point is to be preserved and
delivered. And that's him not falling
into sin, him not yielding to the flesh,
which those temptations were really
about that the temptations were to prove
a point. They were they were not asking
so much of him. Just prove a point. If
you are the son of God, you know, just
walk in pride, make a statement, prove a
point. Something we have to avoid. If
our heart is like that then it means we
can miss out of how we walk in God's
purpose. So let's go to Psalm 91
and see that text has quoted and a very
important text on preservation and
deliverance. Like if there's any text
that is heavy, utterly heavy on
preservation, it is this text heavy on
preservation maybe even more than
deliverance.
I mean deliverance by that I mean you
already in a situation you're coming out
of it. Then preservation you are just
protected from the situation. Both of
them are available in the new life. So
in Psalm 91 it says he who dwells in the
secret place of the most high shall
dwell under the shadow of the might. Now
let me make a point. Why is preservation
in the new life important? Because we
are living in a world that is under
attack. Is the same reason why the
believer's authority is important. And
when we get there we'll talk about it. 1
John 5 and verse 21 says the whole world
21 is verse 19 I believe says the whole
world lies under the sway of the wicked
one when you are seeing a world where
death is default darkness is default
there's the reign of sin death and
darkness it's important to be in faith
it's important to be in faith for
preservation
all right it's important to be in faith
for preservation it's yeah let's just
Let's leave it at that. It's important
to be in faith for preservation. It's
important to learn to exercise the
believer's authority because you will
need to from time to time. So the world
be the way of the wicked one is in all
kinds of regards. Temptation is one
example. The enemy is always bringing
temptation. You must exercise your
authority not to walk in it. But also it
could be in natural regards as well. All
right? And that's why we must stay in
faith for preservation and deliverance.
So he tells us here, he that dwells in
the secret place of the most high shall
abide under the shadow of the almighty.
I will say of the Lord is my refuge and
my fortress. Isn't it interesting? We're
reading the Old Testament text. And this
is the kind of faith that um the
psalmist here has
um you know has about about Yahweh. All
right. But let me jump to verse 9.
Because you have made the Lord your
refuge, even the most high your dwelling
place. No evil shall befall you, nor
shall any plague come near your
dwelling. He gave you he gave us the
reason because you have made the Lord
your your the Lord my refuge, even the
most high my dwelling place. So this is
because of something there's something
that effects it. You know, he also said
earlier, you shall not be afraid.
It says no evil shall be before you, no
plague shall come near your dwelling. He
shall give his angels charge over you.
They shall keep you in all your ways. Do
you believe that? It says in their ends
they shall bear you up lest you dash
your foot against a stone. You shall
tread upon the lion and the cobra, the
young lion and the serpent. You shall
trample under food because he has set
his love upon me. Therefore, I would
deliver him. So, this is now speaking
from God's side. Yahweh is speaking and
saying because he has set his love upon
me, he has his faith in me. It's just
like Proverbs 18:20-21 that says those
that love he that loves it will eat the
fruit thereof. Death and life are in
power of his tongue. So whichever one
you love, whether you are in faith in
Yahweh, you are in faith for life. You
are not speaking evil happening. You
know, therefore I will deliver him. I
will set him on high because he has
known my name. I will he shall call upon
me and I will answer him. I'll be with
him in trouble. I'll deliver him and
honor him with long life. I will satisfy
him and show him my salvation. So
because of salvation, we might say the
long life also might be spiritual in
implication. But in the light of every
part of this text is also can be seen as
natural long life in the sense of
fulfilling the number of our days which
is something that the scriptures speak
to
very clearly. There is preservation
and there's the role of the ministry of
angels in that. Even though we are not
looking to angels for it, we put our
faith in Christ. We put our faith in God
for that. All right.
From here forward, we'll be asking the
question, how do we walk in
preservation? How do we effect it? Um,
and we'll see that from the very next
episode. Thank you.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plleose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.